=head1 NAME

File::Stat::Ls - Perl class for converting file stat() to ls -l format 

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use File::Stat::Ls;

  my $obj = File::Stat::Ls->new;
  my $ls = $obj->ls_stat('/my/file/name.txt');

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This class contains methods to convert stat elements into ls format.
It exports two methods: I<format_mode> and I<ls_stat>. 
The I<format_mode> is borrowed from I<Stat::lsMode> class by 
Mark_Jason Dominus. The I<ls_stat> will build a string formated as
the output of 'ls -l'.

=cut

=head2 new ()

Input variables:

  None

Variables used or routines called:

  None

How to use:

   my $obj = new File::Stat::Ls;      # or
   my $obj = File::Stat::Ls->new;     # or

Return: new empty or initialized File::Stat::Ls object.

=cut


=head1 METHODS

This class defines the following common methods, routines, and 
functions.

=head2 Exported Tag: All 

The I<:all> tag includes all the methods or sub-rountines 
defined in this class. 

  use File::Stat::Ls qw(:all);

It includes the following sub-routines:

=cut
=head2 format_mode ($mode)

Input variables:

  $mode - the third element from stat

Variables used or routines called:

  None

How to use:

   my $md = $self->format_mode((stat $fn)[2]);

Return: string with permission bits such as -r-xr-xr-x.

=cut

=head2 ls_stat ($fn)

Input variables:

  $fn - file name
     ($dev,$ino,$mode,$nlink,$uid,$gid,$rdev,$size,
      $atime,$mtime,$ctime,$blksize,$blocks) = stat($fn);


Variables used or routines called:

  None

How to use:

   my $ls = $self->ls_stat($fn);

Return: the ls string such as one of the followings:

  -r-xr-xr-x   1 root     other         4523 Jul 12 09:49 uniq
  drwxr-xr-x   2 root     other       2048 Jul 12 09:50 bin
  lrwxrwxrwx   1 oracle7  dba           40 Jun 12  2002 linked.pl 
               -> /opt/bin/linked2.pl

=cut


=head2 ls_stat_data ($fn)

Input variables:

  $fn - file/directory name

Variables used or routines called:

  ls_stat()

How to use:

   my $hashref = $self->ls_stat_data($fn);

Return: hashref with data about the file

  -r-xr-xr-x   1 root     other         4523 Jul 12 09:49 uniq
  drwxr-xr-x   2 root     other       2048 Jul 12 09:50 bin
  lrwxrwxrwx   1 oracle7  dba           40 Jun 12  2002 linked.pl 
               -> /opt/bin/linked2.pl

=cut


=head2 stat_attr ($fn, $typ)

Input variables:

  $fn - file name for getting stat attributes
     ($dev,$ino,$mode,$nlink,$uid,$gid,$rdev,$size,
      $atime,$mtime,$ctime,$blksize,$blocks) = stat($fn);
  $typ - what type of object that you want it to return.
    The default is to return a hash containing filename, longname,
    and a hash ref with all the element from stat.
    SFTP - to return a Net::SFTP::Attributes object 
    


Variables used or routines called:

  ls_stat

How to use:

   my $hr = $self->stat_attr($fn);  # get hash ref
   my %h  = $self->stat_attr($fn);  # get hash

Return: $hr or %h where the hash elements are depended on the type.
The default is to get a hash array with the following elements:

  filename - file name
  longname - the ls_stat string for the file
  a        - the attributes of the file with the following elements:
             dev,ino,mode,nlink,uid,gid,rdev,size,atime,mtime,
             ctime,blksize,blocks

If the type is SFTP, then it will only return a 
I<Net::SFTP::Attributes> object with the following elements: 

  flags,perm,uid,gid,size,atime,mtime

=cut
=head1 HISTORY

=over 4

=item * Version 0.10

This version includes two methods: format_mode and ls_stat. 
It is uploaded to CPAN on 7/11/2005.

=item * Version 0.11

07/12/2005 (htu) - added stat_attr method.

=cut

=head1 SEE ALSO (some of docs that I check often)

Data::Describe, Oracle::Loader, CGI::Getopt, File::Xcopy, 
Oracle::Trigger, Debug::EchoMessage, CGI::Getopt, etc.

=head1 AUTHOR

Copyright (c) 2005 Hanming Tu.  All rights reserved.

This package is free software and is provided "as is" without express
or implied warranty.  It may be used, redistributed and/or modified
under the terms of the Perl Artistic License (see
http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html)

=cut


